"directory to manage documentation, configuration, source code, and project management. 
📄 Common Root-Level Documents
README.md: Provides a high-level overview of the project, including its purpose, how to install and run it, and contribution guidelines. This is often the first file a new user or developer will read.
LICENSE or LICENSE.md: Contains the legal terms under which the software is distributed.
.gitignore: (For Git users) Specifies which files and directories should be ignored by version control (e.g., temporary files, build artifacts, or virtual environments).
setup.py or pyproject.toml: Used in Python projects for packaging and distribution, defining project metadata and installation requirements.
Dockerfile: Contains instructions for building a Docker container image for the application, ensuring a consistent environment for deployment.
CONTRIBUTING.md: Provides guidelines for how other developers can contribute to the project (e.g., coding standards, testing procedures).
CHANGELOG.md or HISTORY.md: Documents the changes made in each version or release of the project. 
📁 Standard Folders
src/ (or the project name folder): Contains the main source code for the application.
docs/ or doc/: Dedicated to extensive project documentation, such as user manuals, API documentation, or design specifications.
tests/ or test/: Stores test scripts and test cases for quality assurance.
config/ or settings/: Holds configuration files or settings for different environments (development, production, testing).
data/: Used for storing data files, such as sample data, raw data, or processed data, especially in data-related projects.
venv/ or .venv/: A standard location for the project's isolated virtual environment, which is typically ignored by version control.
build/ or dist/: Directories where compiled files or distributable packages are placed during the build process. 
📝 Project Management Documents
In a general business or project management context, other non-code documents are used, such as: 
Project Plan: A comprehensive document detailing how the project will be managed, including timelines, resources, and scope.
Risk Register: A log of potential project risks, their potential impact, and mitigation strategies.
Meeting Minutes: Records of discussions, decisions, and action items from project meetings.
Status Reports: Regular updates on project progress for stakeholders. 



What other files can be in a project folder?

How do you manage dependencies in Python projects?

What are some popular Python web frameworks besides Django?
Python: The Pythonic Way to Handle File Directories for Your Data ...

Medium

What are standard directory layouts for source code, other libraries, build ...

Software Engineering Stack Exchange

How to Structure Files and Folder in your Project? - GeeksforGeeks

GeeksforGeeks

Show all





4 sites
Yes, many programming languages and tools use simple, text-based files for configuration and dependency management that are similar in concept to Python's requirements.txt. These files typically work with specific command-line tools. 
Here are some common examples:
📦 Dependency & Package Management Files
These files define the libraries and packages your project needs, and a specific command-line tool is used to install them. 
package.json (JavaScript/Node.js):
Purpose: Defines project metadata and lists required Node.js packages (dependencies and devDependencies).
Command: Use the npm (Node Package Manager) or yarn command-line tool.
Install: npm install
Gemfile (Ruby):
Purpose: Specifies required gems (libraries) for a Ruby project. It is used by the bundler gem to ensure the correct versions are installed.
Command: bundle install
pom.xml (Java/Maven):
Purpose: The Project Object Model file used by Maven to manage project builds, dependencies, and documentation. It's an XML file.
Command: mvn install or mvn compile
Cargo.toml (Rust):
Purpose: The manifest file for Rust projects, listing dependencies, metadata, and sections for building.
Command: Use the cargo command-line tool.
Build: cargo build
Run: cargo run 
⚙️ Configuration & Automation Files
These files are used by command-line tools to define how a project should be built, run, or configured.
Makefile:
Purpose: Defines a set of tasks or "targets" (like install, clean, test) and the commands needed to execute them. Used by the make build automation tool.
Command: make [target_name] (e.g., make test)
Dockerfile:
Purpose: Contains instructions for the docker command-line tool to automatically build a container image, which packages an application and all its dependencies into a consistent environment.
Command: docker build -t my-app .
Procfile:
Purpose: Used by platforms like Heroku to declare what commands are run by the application's dynos (processes).
Command: Automatically used by the platform, but often tested locally with tools like foreman start or heroku local.
.gitignore:
Purpose: A simple text file used by the git command-line tool to determine which files and directories to ignore when committing code.
Command: Automatically consulted by git commands like git add and git status. 


Pipfile for Python - Hacker News

Hacker News
How to Create and Pip Install Requirements.txt in Python

freeCodeCamp

gem equivalent of `pip install -r requirements.txt` - Stack Overflow

Stack Overflow
Show all
"
